Add manage microgateways with apictl docs (#3223)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/managing-microgateways/managing-microgateways-with-ctl.md

# Managing Microgateways

> WSO2 API Controller, **apictl** can be used as a developer CLI tool for Microgateway. It enables interacting with one or more Microgateways without having to perform the following tasks via the WSO2 API Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WSO2 API Controller (apictl) can be used as a developer CLI tool for Microgateway. It enables interacting with one or more Microgateways without having to perform the following tasks via the WSO2 API Manager (WSO2 API-M).
```

Reviewer: Shall we change like above? (Especially we are planning to correct all the apictl abbreviation occurences as shown above in the doc space soon)

Author: Thanks, will do. Will update other occurrences accordingly.

- Deploy an API
- View the list of deployed APIs
- Undeploy an API

!!! info
    **Before you begin** 

    -  Download the Microgateway distribution from the [github release page's](https://github.com/wso2/product-microgateway/releases) and follow the Quick Start Guide attached with the release.

>     -  Make sure the CTL is downloaded and initialized, if not follow the steps in [Download and Initialize the CTL Tool]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/getting-started-with-wso2-api-controller/#download-and-initialize-the-ctl-tool). Following the guide upto [Check the version of the CTL]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/getting-started-with-wso2-api-controller/#check-the-version-of-the-ctl) will be suffecient to continue. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -  Make sure the CTL is downloaded and initialized, if not follow the steps in [Download and Initialize the CTL Tool]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/getting-started-with-wso2-api-controller/#download-and-initialize-the-ctl-tool). Following the guide upto [Check the version of the CTL]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/getting-started-with-wso2-api-controller/#check-the-version-of-the-ctl) will be sufficient to continue. 
```

Author: Thanks! updating this

Once you have added a microgateway environment, and logged in, other commands such as `apictl mg deploy api` can be used by only specifying an environment. This allows you use such commands without entering the microgateway adapter url, username and password everytime.

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg add env <environment-name> --host <adapter-url> -k
    ```

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        -    Mandatory :     
            `--host` or `-c` : The microgateway adapter host url with port  

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg add env prod --host  https://localhost:9443 
        ```

## Log in to a Microgateway Environment

Log in will get an access token from the microgateway adapter and store it for further commands.

-   **Command**
    ```go
    apictl mg login <environment-name> -k
    ```
    ```go
    apictl mg login <environment-name> -u <username> -k
    ```
    ```go
    apictl mg login <environment-name> -u <username> -p <password> -k
    ```
    ```go
    cat <file-with-the-password> | apictl mg login <environment-name> -u <username> --password-stdin -k

>     ``` 

Reviewer: Shall we move this example inside the tip below under the point "If you include the flag `--password-stdin`, you can provide the password in a file as shown above", WDYT?
(When I was first reading it took some time to understand what this is. But when I look at the tip, the point have explained this. So, I would have save my time if directly look into the tip, but I didn't know that there is something related to this example in the upcoming tip.

Author: Thanks for this feedback. I'll move this into the tip.

        If you include the flag `--password-stdin`, you can provide the password in a file as shown above.

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        - Optional :     
            `--username` or `-u` : Username for login  
            `--password` or `-p` : Password for login     
            `--password-stdin` : Get password from stdin  

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg login dev -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg login dev -u admin -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg login dev -u admin -p admin -k
        ```
        ```bash
        cat ~/.mypassword | apictl mg login dev -u admin --password-stdin
        ```
-   **Response**

        ``` bash tab="Response Format"
        Successfully logged into Microgateway Adapter in environment: <environment-name>
        ```

        ```bash tab="Example Response"
        Successfully logged into Microgateway Adapter in environment: dev
        ```
    
    !!! warning
        Using `--password` in CTL is not secure. Instead, you can use `--password-stdin` to include password file or provide the password when prompted. 

## Deploy an API

> In order to deploy, let's first create an API project. Follow the steps in [Initialize an API Project]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/managing-apis-api-products/importing-apis-via-dev-first-approach/#initialize-an-api-project) to create an API project using **apictl**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to deploy, let us first create an API project. Follow the steps in [Initialize an API Project]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/managing-apis-api-products/importing-apis-via-dev-first-approach/#initialize-an-api-project) to create an API project using **apictl**.
```

Author: Thanks, updating this.

An API project can be deployed to a microgateway using the following commands.

-   **Command**
    ```go
    apictl mg deploy api -e <environment-name> -f <api-project-file-path> -k
    ```
    ```go
    apictl mg deploy api ---environment <environment-name> --file <api-project-file-path> -k
    ```

    !!! tip

>         In an API project the API name and the API version given in the api.yaml will be taken as the name and version of the API once deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In an API project the API name and the API version given in the `api.yaml` will be taken as the name and version of the API once deployed.
```
It is a best practice if the file names such as api.yaml can be mentioned as above within text.

Author: Thanks, updating this. Will remember for the others.

    !!! tip
        When trying to deploy, if an API with the same name, version, virtual host combination already exists in the microgateway adapter, an error response will be given saying that the API already exists.

>         In order to override the existing API or deploy an API without considering whether it already exists or not, include the flag --override or its shorthand -o to the same command above. For an example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In order to override the existing API or deploy an API without considering whether it already exists or not, include the flag `--override` or its shorthand `-o` to the same command above. For an example,
```

Author: Thanks, updating this.

            `-f`, `--file`        : Filepath of the apictl project to be deployed

        - Optional :     
            `-o`, `--override` : Whether to deploy an API irrespective of its existance. Overrides when exists.    
            `--skip-cleanup` : Whether to keep all temporary files created during the deploy process

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api --environment dev --file petstore -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore --override -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore -o --skip-cleanup -k

-   **Response**

    ``` bash tab="Deployed"
    Successfully deployed API to microgateway.
    ```

    ``` bash tab="API Already Exists"
    Unable to deploy API. API already exists. Status: Conflict 409
    ```

    ```bash tab="Deployed or Updated"
    Successfully deployed/updated the API in microgateway.
    ```

## List Deployed APIs

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg get apis -e <environment-name> -k
    ```
    !!! tip

>         By default, the number of APIs listed will be limited to 25. To increase or decrease the limit set the flag --limit. For an example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        By default, the number of APIs listed will be limited to 25. To increase or decrease the limit set the flag `--limit`. For an example,
```

Author: Thanks, updating this.

        ```bash
        apictl mg get apis -e dev --limit 100 -k
        ```

    !!! tip

>         Currently, these APIs can be filtered by API type. The supported types are http and ws (web socket). Use the flag --query to filter APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Currently, these APIs can be filtered by API type. The supported types are http and ws (web socket). Use the flag `--query` to filter APIs.
```

Author: Thanks, updating this.

    ```

## Undeploy an API

This lets you remove an API from the microgateway. 

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg undeploy api -e <environment-name> -n <api-name> -v <api-version> -k
    ```
    ```bash
    apictl mg undeploy api -e <environment-name> -n <api-name> -v <api-version> --vhost <vhost> -k
    ```

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        - Mandatory :    
            `-e`, `--environment` : Microgateway adapter environment to undeploy the API from   
            `-n`, `--name`        : API name   
            `-v`, `--version`     : API version   

        - Optional :     
            `-t`, `--vhost` : Virtual host the API belongs to   

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg undeploy api -e dev -n petstore -v 0.0.1 -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg undeploy api --name SwaggerPetstore --version 0.0.1 -e dev -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg undeploy api -n petstore -v 0.0.1 -e dev --vhost www.pets.com
        ```
-   **Response**

    ```
    API undeployed from microgateway successfully!
    ```

## Log out from a Microgateway Environment

> This will erase the access token of the microgateway adapter from the API Controller (apictl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will erase the access token of the microgateway adapter from the apictl.
```

Author: Thanks, updating this.

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg logout <environment-name>
    ```

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg logout dev
        ```
-   **Response**

    ``` bash tab="Response Format"
    Logged out from Microgateway Adapter in environment: <environment-name>
    ```

    ``` bash tab="Example Response"
    Logged out from Microgateway Adapter in environment: dev
    ```

## Remove a Microgateway Environment

> This will delete the adapter url and its access token first, and then remove the microgateway environment from the API Controller (apictl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will delete the adapter url and its access token first, and then remove the microgateway environment from the apictl.
```

Author: Thanks, updating this.

- Deploy an API
- View the list of deployed APIs
- Undeploy an API

!!! info
    **Before you begin** 

    -  Download the Microgateway distribution from the [github release page's](https://github.com/wso2/product-microgateway/releases) and follow the Quick Start Guide attached with the release.

    -  Make sure the apictl is downloaded and initialized, if not follow the steps in [Download and Initialize the CTL Tool]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/getting-started-with-wso2-api-controller/#download-and-initialize-the-ctl-tool). Following the guide upto [Check the version of the CTL]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/getting-started-with-wso2-api-controller/#check-the-version-of-the-ctl) will be sufficient to continue. 

## Add a Microgateway Environment

A microgateway here refers to the entire cluster which includes all three components: adapter, router and enforcer. By adding a microgateway environment, the url to the adapter will be stored in a config file, and therefore enables login. 

> Once you have added a microgateway environment, and logged in, other commands such as `apictl mg deploy api` can be used by only specifying an environment. This allows you use such commands without entering the microgateway adapter url, username and password everytime.

Reviewer 2: Shall we change this as like this?
```suggestion
Once you have added a microgateway environment, and logged in, other commands such as `apictl mg deploy api` can be used by only specifying an environment. This allows you to use such commands without entering the microgateway adapter url, username, and password every time.
```

Reviewer 3: shall we use "all the time" instead of "every time"

Author: Adding the suggested changes. When the meaning of every time is googled, it says 'without exception'. Therefore I think it is more suitable.

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg add env <environment-name> --host <adapter-url> -k
    ```

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        -    Mandatory :     
            `--host` or `-c` : The microgateway adapter host url with port  

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg add env prod --host  https://localhost:9443 
        ```

## Log in to a Microgateway Environment

Log in will get an access token from the microgateway adapter and store it for further commands.

-   **Command**
    ```bash

>     apictl mg login <environment-name> -k

Reviewer 2: @wasuradananjith Can we remove the -k flags from the MG-related docs as we discussed for CTL?

        ```bash
        cat ~/.mypassword | apictl mg login dev -u admin --password-stdin
        ```
-   **Response**

        ``` bash tab="Response Format"
        Successfully logged into Microgateway Adapter in environment: <environment-name>
        ```

        ```bash tab="Example Response"
        Successfully logged into Microgateway Adapter in environment: dev
        ```
    
    !!! warning
        Using `--password` in CTL is not secure. Instead, you can use `--password-stdin` to include password file or provide the password when prompted. 

## Deploy an API

In order to deploy, let us first create an API project. Follow the steps in [Initialize an API Project]({{base_path}}/install-and-setup/setup/api-controller/managing-apis-api-products/importing-apis-via-dev-first-approach/#initialize-an-api-project) to create an API project using **apictl**.

An API project can be deployed to a microgateway using the following commands.

-   **Command**
    ```go
    apictl mg deploy api -e <environment-name> -f <api-project-file-path> -k
    ```
    ```go
    apictl mg deploy api ---environment <environment-name> --file <api-project-file-path> -k
    ```

    !!! tip

>         In an API project the API name and the API version given in the `api.yaml` will be taken as the name and version of the API once deployed.

Reviewer 2: Shall we change this as follows?
```suggestion
        In an API project, the API name and the API version given in the `api.yaml` will be taken as the name and version of the API once deployed.
```

Author: Adding the suggested change.

    !!! tip
        When trying to deploy, if an API with the same name, version, virtual host combination already exists in the microgateway adapter, an error response will be given saying that the API already exists.

        In order to override the existing API or deploy an API without considering whether it already exists or not, include the flag `--override` or its shorthand `-o` to the same command above. For an example,
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore -o -k
        ```  

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        - Mandatory :    
            `-e`, `--environment` : Microgateway adapter environment to add the API   
            `-f`, `--file`        : Filepath of the apictl project to be deployed

        - Optional :     

>             `-o`, `--override` : Whether to deploy an API irrespective of its existance. Overrides when exists.    

Reviewer 2: Shall we correct the small typo here?
```suggestion
            `-o`, `--override` : Whether to deploy an API irrespective of its existence. Overrides when exists.    
```

Author: Fixing the typo here

            `--skip-cleanup` : Whether to keep all temporary files created during the deploy process

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api --environment dev --file petstore -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore --override -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg deploy api -e dev -f petstore -o --skip-cleanup -k
        ```

-   **Response**

    ``` bash tab="Deployed"
    Successfully deployed API to microgateway.
    ```

    ``` bash tab="API Already Exists"
    Unable to deploy API. API already exists. Status: Conflict 409
    ```

    ```bash tab="Deployed or Updated"
    Successfully deployed/updated the API in microgateway.
    ```

## List Deployed APIs

> 

Reviewer 2: Shall we add an introduction sentence like "**This command uses to list the deployed APIs on a given microgateway  environment"**  ?

Reviewer: Here as well,
"This command can be uses to..." would be more suitable WDYT? @Chamindu36

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: Adding the intro line "This command can be used to list the deployed APIs on a given microgateway adapter environment."

        ```bash
        apictl mg get apis -e dev --query type:http -k
        ```

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        - Mandatory :    
            `-e`, `--environment` : Microgateway adapter environment to list the APIs from  

        - Optional :       
            `-l`, `--limit` : Maximum number of APIs to return     
            `-q`, `--query` : Query to filter the APIs

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg get apis -e dev -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg get apis -q type:http --environment dev --limit 100 -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg get apis -q type:ws -e dev -l 10 -k
        ```

-   **Response**

    ```
    Limit flag not set. Set to default: 25
    APIs total: 2 received: 2
    NAME                VERSION             TYPE                CONTEXT         GATEWAY_ENVS
    SwaggerPetstore     1.0.5               HTTP                /v2             [Production and Sandbox]
    SwaggerPetstore1    1.0.5               WS                  /v2             [Production and Sandbox]
    ```

## Undeploy an API

> This lets you remove an API from the microgateway. 

Reviewer 2: Shall we add something like this as the introduction of this command?
```suggestion
This command uses to remove an API from the microgateway. 
```

Reviewer: @Chamindu36 shall we change this like below.
"This command can be used to remove an API from the microgateway."
WDYT?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: Updating the line to "This command can be used to remove an API from the microgateway."

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg undeploy api -e <environment-name> -n <api-name> -v <api-version> -k
    ```
    ```bash
    apictl mg undeploy api -e <environment-name> -n <api-name> -v <api-version> --vhost <vhost> -k
    ```

    !!! info
        **Flags:**
        
        - Mandatory :    
            `-e`, `--environment` : Microgateway adapter environment to undeploy the API from   
            `-n`, `--name`        : API name   
            `-v`, `--version`     : API version   

        - Optional :     
            `-t`, `--vhost` : Virtual host the API belongs to   

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg undeploy api -e dev -n petstore -v 0.0.1 -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg undeploy api --name SwaggerPetstore --version 0.0.1 -e dev -k
        ```
        ```bash
        apictl mg undeploy api -n petstore -v 0.0.1 -e dev --vhost www.pets.com
        ```
-   **Response**

    ```
    API undeployed from microgateway successfully!
    ```

## Log out from a Microgateway Environment

> This will erase the access token of the microgateway adapter from apictl.

Reviewer 2: Shall we change the command introduction like this?
```suggestion
This command uses to logout a user from the microgateway environment. Once this command is executed the access token of the microgateway adapter will be erased from the apictl.
```

Reviewer: "This command can be used to logout from a microgateway environment. Once this command is executed the access token of the microgateway adapter will be erased from the apictl"
@Chamindu36 WDYT?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: Updating the intro line for logout

-   **Command**
    ```bash
    apictl mg logout <environment-name>
    ```

    !!! example
        ```bash
        apictl mg logout dev
        ```
-   **Response**

    ``` bash tab="Response Format"
    Logged out from Microgateway Adapter in environment: <environment-name>
    ```

    ``` bash tab="Example Response"
    Logged out from Microgateway Adapter in environment: dev
    ```

## Remove a Microgateway Environment

> This will delete the adapter url and its access token first, and then remove the microgateway environment from apictl.

Reviewer 2: Shall we change the intro like this ?
```suggestion
This command uses to remove a microgateway environment from the apictl. Once this command is called, it will delete the adapter url and its access token first, and then remove the microgateway environment from apictl.
```

Reviewer: "This command can be used to remove a microgateway environment from the apictl. Once this command is executed, it will delete the adapter url and its access token first, and then remove the microgateway environment from apictl."
WDYT?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: Updating the intro for remove env
